[Music]
ten cardio mistakes that make you fatter
according to fitness trainers hey you
want a slim body you have to do a lot of
cardio right well this misconception is
extremely popular among those who want
to lose weight however not many people
know that cardio can actually turn into
a fat trap not only can aerobic
exercises prevent you from losing fat
but they can also make you gain extra
pounds
oh no well before you learn which cardio
mistakes you should avoid hit the
subscribe button and ring the
notification bell to join us on the
bright side of life counting down from
number ten
you focus on cardio rather than strength
training let's admit that if your
workouts include just cardio they can
get a bit boring with time unfortunately
that's not the only problem
good old cardio isn't as effective for
weight loss as you might believe
surprisingly if you want to become
slimmer strength training works better
first of all such workouts build up lean
muscle mass and this decreases fat
stores and boosts your metabolism
according to Elizabeth Hendricks Burwell
celebrity trainer and co-owner of
high-performance gym the more muscle you
manage to build the more calories are
burned daily besides there are strength
exercises that can burn twice as many
calories as aerobic exercises for
example the American Council on exercise
figured out that exercises involving
kettlebells can burn as many as 20
calories per minute
to burn the same amount of calories
you'd have to run at a pace of six
minutes per mile
hey I'm waiting for the kettle corn
exercises myself number nine you try to
stay in your fat-burning zone
[Music]
nowadays there's a widespread belief
that if you want to lose extra weight
you should focus on long steady and slow
aerobic training within the fat-burning
zone this concept is based on the idea
that your body can burn more fat when
you're doing a low intensity activity
this is indeed true for example during a
low intensity exercise 50% of the
calories your body burns will be from
fat at the same time when you perform a
high-intensity activity you burn just
35% but the catch is that when you train
at higher intensities the number of
total burned calories is way higher
Marta Montenegro an adjunct professor of
exercise and sports science at Florida
International University and a certified
strength and conditioning coach confirms
that you burn many more calories during
and after high intensity workouts this
is because the fat-burning effect of
such exercises can last for up to 24
hours as a result this makes you lose
fat much faster
number eight you do cardio on an empty
stomach there's a popular theory saying
that if you run or cycle on an empty
stomach your body has to use its fat
stores to get energy therefore you'll
lose weight more quickly and effectively
but that's not completely true the
muscles you use to do cardio exercises
do depend heavily on carbs and fats to
get energy but contrary to what many
people believe your body won't get this
energy from fat stores in your belly or
hips instead it will take fat fragments
and carbs from your muscle stores and
bloodstream
dr. Michelle Olson adjunct professor of
sports science at Huntington College is
sure that a strategy based on training
on an empty stomach can seriously
backfire you can quickly become
dehydrated and hyperglycemic as a result
you won't be able to get to the point at
which your body starts to burn fat
according to research this happens 40 to
50 minutes after you begin your training
session so it's a good idea to grab a
bite 60 to 90 minutes before you start a
workout you should have something that's
easy to digest
like low-fat yogurt or fruit number
seven you think you can eat whatever you
want if you do enough cardio well doing
a lot of cardio doesn't mean you can eat
whatever you want in large amounts if
you did you'd easily out eat your
workout as a matter of fact in a couple
of minutes you can consume more calories
than you just lost during the hard
hour-long workout many people make the
mistake of believing that exercise alone
can
helped them burn excess fat but studies
show that the average overweight person
can lose just 5 pounds of fat in 8
months if they only do cardio or
resistance training and that's a
frustratingly small result for that
amount of work if you eat a lot and then
train a lot you can exhaust your body
and overtrain consequently you may
suffer from burnout and injuries your
immune system will get weaker and your
sleep will become less restful on top of
that you may even lose some muscle mass
try to analyze your diet and exclude
unhealthy products from your meals avoid
numerous snacks and consider the size of
your portions otherwise you might be
spending hours on the treadmill and
still suffering from your bad choices
mistake number six your training
sessions are always the same it's
typical for most people to choose one
type of cardio and stick to it day after
day that's the right way to perfect a
particular activity for example running
unfortunately this isn't an effective
approach if your goal is to lose weight
or improve your overall fitness the best
thing you can do in this case is
diversify your workouts the problem is
that when you regularly do the same
exercise your body gets better at this
activity as a result it doesn't need to
put in as much effort as before so you
don't spend as much energy as you're
used to and thus don't burn enough
calories
try to add some variety to your training
and let your body guess what's coming
its way next mistake number five you do
too much cardio well you do a lot of
cardio but it doesn't seem to have any
effect so you start to train even more
but shockingly instead of getting
slimmer you begin to gain weight
this happens because your body perceives
long steady-state cardio workouts as a
stressor this makes your body release
cortisol which is a stress hormone
cortisol is bad for fat loss since
instead of burning fat
it makes your body store it and the more
you train the higher your cortisol
levels rise hmm elevated levels of
cortisol make your cells resistant to
insulin which can lead to various
inflammatory processes plus cortisol
negatively influences your hunger
relating hormones this makes you feel
hungry and the worst thing about this is
that you feel starved not only during
your workout session but long after you
finish it as well
[Applause]
number four you use light weights while
doing cardio light weights don't make
much difference when you use them during
your cardio session they're too
insignificant to strengthen your muscles
and they don't help you burn more
calories in short they aren't worth the
time you need to spend to pick them up
of course they aren't harmful just
useless at the same time there's one
exception if you wear a weighted vest
during a cardio workout this may
increase your caloric expenditure and
overall fitness level such a weight is
evenly distributed over your body and it
doesn't require additional movements
from your side
[Music]
number three you don't do enough cardio
now many people believe they can get
slim by training for half an hour three
times a week however that's not enough
to become fit by doing such workouts you
only stay moderately active on one hand
this will definitely help you avoid the
dangers of a sedentary lifestyle on the
other hand losing weight usually takes
much more work you should do at least
four intense workouts every week number
two you do cardio only in the morning
one more myth related to cardio training
states that if you do a cardio workout
in the morning you jumpstart your
metabolism in reality 30 minutes of
cardio is still 30 minutes of cardio
whenever you decide to do it
be it early in the morning or late in
the evening and if you feel that morning
workouts aren't for you since instead of
feeling energized you become tired and
unhappy do them when it feels best for
you number one you do your cardio and
only after that do you hit the weights
[Music]
if you start your workout with an
intense cardio session you might not
have enough strength left for effective
strength training Lindsey vest Ola a
certified trainer and founder of body
project fitness and lifestyle recommends
doing high-intensity cardio training and
full resistance training workouts on
separate day this way you'll be able to
concentrate on each of them completely
and burn more calories during your
workout so do you know any other ways to
make your cardio workouts more effective
if so tell us about them in the comments
below remember to hit the like button
share this video with your friends and
subscribe to this channel to stay on the
bright side of life you still here
alright now drop and give me 20
[Music]